# ETL-Project
Data Cleanup & Analysis
1.	The sources of data that you will extract from:
For this project we used two csv files: insurance dataset and tax dataset. We extracted the state and local tax rates from the tax foundation website from all 50 states. And we obtained the insurance dataset from insurance client and we anonymized the data to ensure privacy.
2.	The type of transformation needed for this data (cleaning, joining, filtering, aggregating, etc):
After the data were extracted, we cleaned the data in Jupyter Notebook. We first selected the relevant columns from each dataset, renamed the columns and checked to make sure that the datatypes were consistent between the two datasets. 
We created the etl_db database in Postgresql(pgAdmin) and created tables to import the datasets. We then imported the cleaned datasets into pgAdmin. We also checked the row count to make sure we have the complete dataset.
3.	The type of final production database to load the data into (relational or non-relational):
Lastly, we created the engine and passed in Postgresql (which is a relational database) connection in Jupyter Notebook. By using the ‘select * from’ sql code, we were able to successfully import and export the data into Postgres, in addition to extraction and transformation of data in Jupyter Notebook.
4.	The final tables or collections that will be used in the production database?
The tables include the two cleaned datasets (clean_tax_data.csv and clean_insurance_data.cvs). 

Project Report:
The insurance dataset used in the ELT project can be used to perform insurance analysis across different states and line of businesses. 
In particular (a) we can look premium amounts by State and Business lines, (b) we can analyze high/low dollar premium amounts to check any anomalies in the datasets, (c) we can look at the breakdown by location to determine where the business growth is taking place, (d) we can look at the renewed and new business and assess the potential customer relationships that may exist in order to determine if the turnover indicates potential impairment. We can also look at the business generated by specific agent which can allow us for additional analysis of key suppliers. This could also help us identify any risk management associated with the business.
The state and local business tax dataset can be used in re-calculating the premium tax amounts in addition to assessing the state local business tax rates in different states. Using the datasets, we can look into the reinsurance amounts by new or renewed business and across different business lines and states.
